---
layout: post
title: Financial Balance and Doing What Makes You Happy
published: true
tags: [ budgeting, giving, working ]
category: retire-at-40
---
Many articles I have read over the years talk about Financial Balance. Many give you various percentages which you could (should?) follow and others break it down even further. For example, one thought is to break your net income into the following areas:

* up to 50% on NEEDS
* up to 30% on WANTS
* the rest (20%) on SAVINGS

Breaking these down further can lead to more complex solutions and that is something you should decide, but before even trying to break it down, consider *why* you should do this.

h2. Being Happy

Most of this blog, as well as others I read, is about being happy. It's not just about personal finance, saving money or being thrifty, it's about doing what makes you happy. When you realise that having the freedom to do what you want because of financial independence that is a powerful thing. And whilst you might not be in that situation now, but heading towards it over the next few year, means that whatever you do, will make you happy.

Making homemade jam, wooden toys from the ends of spare planks in the garage, "pizza dough":/recipe/basic-italian-pizza-dough.html freshly made in the kitchen, a "crayon pocket":http://homemadebyjill.blogspot.com/2009/11/homemade-holidays-stocking-stuffers-for.html for the kids and a "sock puppet":http://www.daniellesplace.com/HTML/puppets.html from old worn out socks are all very enjoyable and also cheap and easy to make. The thought that a homemade toy says rather than a plastic thing from the shop is very satisfying.

So where does all this fit in with the percentages above. Well, making all these things at home is way cheaper than buying them from the shop, so firstly they help with actually saving money. That goes towards your 20% savings.

Secondly, doing all of these activities is fun! Either by yourself, with the kids or for other people, they all give lasting satisfaction which means you feel good. It also helps fill in your time instead of watching TV, doing retail therapy or just generally being lazy.

Finally, you can fill your time with wants which are fun and cheap, rather than wanting expensive DVDs, chocolate or expensive hobbies. Of course, there is nothing wrong with all of these things if they are in balance with the rest of your life and your way of life. Better to be happy and healthy, than rich or broke. Finding that balance can help keep you on track to financial independence as well as on track to enjoying your life.

