---
layout: post
title: Is there such a thing as the Perfect Deal?
published: true
tags: [ spending ]
category: retire-at-40\n---
Over on "Sweating the Big Stuff":http://sweatingthebigstuff.com/ Daniel posted about "Waiting for the Perfect Deal":http://sweatingthebigstuff.com/2009/12/30/waiting-for-the-perfect-deal/. It was something I could identify with mainly because in the past, when I wanted something I want it now!

As time as gone on however, I find myself easily able to resist buying certain things. I currently have a microwave in which the display doesn't work. It's interesting since I hadn't owned the microwave from the beginning and only acquired it once the display was broken. As it turns out, it's a complete pain to use. In fact, I have no idea how to turn the settings down so that it doesn't cook on the "_highest of the high, this will make iron melt_" setting.

h2. Silly Sale Season

It's time for a new microwave I think.

But still, every single shop in New Zealand has had at least three different sales since Christmas. The traditional Boxing Day Sale, the Sale Between Christmas and New Year Sale (the one no-one knows what to name) and of course we're just had the New Year Sales! It's crazy.

As it turns out I have seen plenty of microwaves during this time. 40% off, 50% off and even 60% off. Plain and simple, I figure 50% off is about as much as you'll get during the course of the year. Every now and again they have 30% or 40% sales but not usually 50% or 60%.

So why _didn't_ I buy a new microwave.

Well, hmm, hard to say really. Probably because Christmas is always an expensive season hence January is usually clawback month. Also because the old microwave actually still works, if you know how to treat it right.

But in all honesty, the real reason I didn't buy one is because of the types on offer. They _all_ have those dastardly display. All I want is one with two dials on the front, one for power and one for time. Why? Because these don't fail. Buttons, displays, alarms, roasting things, weird door catches, they'll all fail I tell you! My old microwave had two dials and it was awesome. Small, but awesome. It lasted years (though I had to get rid of it, fully working - long story).

h2. Patience is a Virtue

Then finally today, I saw one. Two dials, $250 minus 40% so about $150! It looked the job. *It was the perfect deal.*

I didn't buy it.

Maybe I will later in the year. Maybe when silly season is over and my bank account looks healthier. Maybe when my current microwave dies a little more and maybe when it's on sale again for a bargain price. We'll see. Overall, I won't worry too much and my one overriding reason for this is, it'll be on sale again sometime later.

*What have you been putting off buying for ages and why?*

