---
layout: post
title: The Real Goal
published: true
tags: [ retiring ]
category: retire-at-40\n---
I stumbled across a post over on "Mighty Bargain Hunter - What is Financial Retirement?":http://www.mightybargainhunter.com/2009/12/28/what-is-financial-retirement/ and I couldn't help but agree with it.

Especially the following quote:

bq. Retirement is about Money, not Age

I just wanted to write a quick post on this, since this says in a few words what I've been saying my plan was for a while.

I have variously described my plan as "_Retiring at 40 but not actually stopping work_". That sounds ok but it's a little confusing. Then I changed to something more like "_Well, not actually retiring, but just not working for someone else_." It turns out all of these things are true.

h2. The Real Goal (as SMART)

Watching the hundreds of blog posts about New Year Resolution's ("which I don't do":why-you-should-do-new-years-resolutions.html), I have come to think of these things as "_Goals for this Year_". I think that describes best what most people actually do.

Instead, I will *make a goal now for six years time*. I just turned 34 so in 6 years from now (I'll give myself plus or minus 6 months) I plan to retire :)

But to do that I need goals. This is a brave decision of mine but I am now planning on setting out the goals now for what I need to have achieved in six years time. The added bonus with these goals is so that I can set other smaller goals along the way.

To make sure my goals are SMART, here's what they are defined as (along with numerous other variations):

* S = Specific
* M = Measurable
* A = Attainable
* R = Realistic
* T = Timely

By the way, I also plan on reviewing these goals every year since otherwise they may be horrendously out of date in a few years time (either due to health, money, technology advances or aliens).

So let's start.

h2. The Goals

# be able to live in/move to a house in which I pay less than $1000/mth to live in
# be working for myself, whether that is contracting, earning money from sales, adverts or referrals
# have no other debts (apart from my rental house which will be self-sufficient by this year's end)

Some clarifications necessary.

# This includes mortgage, insurance, tax/rates, some maintenance, all bills (electricity, gas, telephone, internet, misc)
# ie. have no immediate bosses who say "_you must do this_"
# Apart from my rental house which will be self-sufficient by the end of 2010.

Ok, that's a first stab. I'm not sure I have covered everything but I think those things are SMART.

*What do you think? Are they realistic? Specific? Measurable? Any other suggestions for other goals I may need to consider?*

