---
layout: default
title: Git Index
---

Some helper Git things I always forget:

## Branching

Creating a new branch which follows a remote branch (in this case 'packaging'):

 $ git branch -a
 * master
   origin/master
   origin/packaging
 
 $ git branch --track packaging origin/packaging
 Branch packaging set up to track remote branch refs/remotes/origin/packaging.
 
 $ git checkout packaging
 Switched to branch "packaging"

## Remotes

To add a new remote:

 $ git remote add debian ssh://git.debian.org/git/collab-maint/zaapt.git
 
 $ git remote show debian
 * remote debian
   URL: ssh://git.debian.org/git/collab-maint/zaapt.git
   New remote branches (next fetch will store in remotes/debian)
     master upstream
 
 $ git fetch debian
 warning: no common commits
 remote: Counting objects: 474, done.
 remote: Compressing objects: 100% (250/250), done.
 remote: Total 474 (delta 226), reused 449 (delta 212)
 Receiving objects: 100% (474/474), 200.12 KiB | 68 KiB/s, done.
 Resolving deltas: 100% (226/226), done.
 From ssh://git.debian.org/git/collab-maint/zaapt
  * [new branch]      master     -> debian/master
  * [new branch]      upstream   -> debian/upstream
 remote: Counting objects: 2, done.
 remote: Compressing objects: 100% (2/2), done.
 remote: Total 2 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0)
 Unpacking objects: 100% (2/2), done.
 From ssh://git.debian.org/git/collab-maint/zaapt
  * [new tag]         debian/0.1.0-1 -> debian/0.1.0-1
  * [new tag]         upstream/0.1.0 -> upstream/0.1.0

(Ends)
