---
layout: post
title: New Outlook for 'Retire at 40'
published: true
tags: [  ]
category: retire-at-40
---
Over the past year, many things have changed. I have grown up a little and maybe matured a little too. I have also been pretty busy with lots of other things. One of which was work. This wasn't good.

I've also had a rethink about this here blog. I think having it's own domain name (www.retire-at-40.com) was good but I think I need to start putting all of these things in the same place. I've always had lots of interests and that site ended up being in the peripheral vision.

Instead, I'm bringing it in to my personal site, one where _all_ of my interests are catered for. I like writing (as you can tell) and having sections for my other interests just make it a whole lot easier. Easier to manage, quicker to post and more likely I'll keep it going.

!2 chilts.org

The new chilts.org is hosted on "Google AppEngine":http://appengine.google.com/ which is awesome since it's free! And you know what free means when you're trying to retire at 40 :)

It also means I can flex my own programming talents and finally write the site/blog software I've always wanted. I don't need the complexity and clutterness of "WordPress":http://wordpress.org/ or any other blogging system. I don't need plugins to help me do things since I just want the basics. I actually want slightly different requirements too, and "Lollysite":/project/lollysite/ (the software I wrote for AppEngine) now does 98% of what I actually need.

!2 Letting Go

Finally, I have decided to rethink the best way to present *Retire at 40*. On the old site, I was too caught up in statistics, subscribing people, advertising, commenting on other sites and everything that goes with it. It was a right pain.

Instead, I'm just going to let all that go. I'm going to write for the enjoyment of it. Maybe, yes, I want this blog to make money in the future but for now I'm just going to let it grow naturally.

Now, I'm just going to concentrate on writing good articles for my audience. Which is the right way forward.

