---
category: simplicity
layout: recipe
title: Why go Simple?
published: true
tags: [  ]
---
Going _simple_ doesn't mean you become a simpleton. In fact, it actually means you're aware of what is going on around you and you act on it accordingly. It means you take stock of your life, decide you want to do something about it and then act on it.

Doing this regularly instead of just for New Year's Resolutions means you can pro-actively improve your life at any time. The power of this thought is phenominal.

And that's the other reason to go simple. It *improves your life*.

Let me just re-iterate that for you:

bq.  Going simple, improves you life!

That statement is one that I'm going to keep in my mind foremost when writing these articles and going about my everyday activities.

h2. A State of Mind

Of course, it's a very hard statement to prove but in reality, everything is in the eye of the beholder. That is, if you _think_ it improves your life, then it probably does.

As a counter example, someone who owns a big 4-wheel drive car and drives around the city probably thinks that the car improves their life but we here know differently. Having to worry and pay for all that maintenance, petrol, tax, licensing, cleaning not to mention the car itself really does complicate things.

Just imagine the time saved, the money saved and the stress saved by not having to sit in one of those big metal contraptions. The "advantages of not having a car are endless":go-by-bike.html.

In fact, I "got rid of my car":/retire-at-40/simple-steps-taken-to-go-car-free.html back in December 2008 and I can honestly say it's one of the best things that has happened to me (I guess we make our own luck).

So in my eyes, getting rid of the car meant I had less to worry about and therefore improved my life. No-one else can say for certain if such an act actually did improve my life except me.

h2. The New You

Selling your car is just one way to simplify your life. Another is to "move into a smaller home":try-a-smaller-home.html and have less to worry about there. Another still is to organise everything you have. Have just one of everything instead of multiple things and also that one thing should have it's place.

Have a read around this site and use it as a reference. Try a few suggestions and come up with your own ("I'd love to hear about them":/about.html).

In a few hours, or days, or weeks, or months, you'll look back on your old self and wonder how you managed to cope.

Good luck on your new journey!
