---
category: simplicity
layout: recipe
title: Go By Bike
published: true
tags: [ biking, car-free, exercise ]
---
Owning and riding a bike is pure fulfillment at its best.

That's quite a statement to start off with but I believe it's true. Since buying my bike I have become fitter, more energetic, less grumpy, richer (yes, it's true) and more fulfilled than I ever was when I owned a car.

I also have "less things":less-is-more.html to worry about. When I had a car I had to think about:

* initial outlay (paid up front, or repayments)
* car and/or road tax
* repair and maintenance
* petrol/gas costs
* parking, both time and money
* cleaning

But with the bike I worry about:

* where I'm going to off-road this weekend
* who I am going to hook up with for a ride
* which way the wind is blowing (a novelty but a fun one)

Of course, there are still some things you need to do if you have a bike but the time and money spent on these is a fraction what it is with a car:

* having the right clothes
* cleaning and maintenance
* repairing my bike

But even then, repairing my bike is something I can do and I don't have to book an appointment at a mechanic, take time off work, take the car there and then pay someone for the privilege.
As if that's not Enough, It's Faster Too

The number one thing people believe they need their car for is because they think it is faster than going by bike. After selling my car I have realised that the opposite is true.

Sitting in a car and heading to work has got to be one of the most frustrating and slow things I have ever done. Luckily, I haven't had to drive to work that much since I usually go by public transport or walk.

There's not a greater feeling in the world to shoot past people stuck in cars on the way to work. Though it isn't just restricted to rush hour.

Riding to friend's houses at the weekend is also a time-saver since the buses run less regularly. I find that waiting at a bus stop is also quite an annoyance. At least by biking means you're constantly on the way and getting somewhere.

As you can see, I like "biking":/cycling/
