---
category: simplicity
layout: recipe
title: My New Sleeping Regime
published: true
tags: [ sleeping ]
---
I have a new plan for my sleeping. I am turning it into a regime! Yep, you heard me, it's going to be 100% focussed on two things. And already I can see the benefits of doing it for just one day (today).

By doing just *two* things related to my sleeping I can see that there are already a multitude of benefits. For a start, by getting up at a specific time this morning, meant I got back home this evening earlier than I have done in years.

But enough rambling on, I guess you want to know what the two things are.

It's pretty simple.

Firstly, I'm going to go to bed at 11pm, every night. This doesn't mean get _into_ bed, it means, be in bed with the lights at as soon as 11 o'clock strikes.

Simple aye!

Secondly, and this will be the harder one of the two, I'll be getting up at 7am as soon as the alarm clock goes off. I know this will be harder for me since I'm not a morning person but if I'm getting a good amount of sleep it'll be much easier.

h2. The Benefits

There are a number of benefits but I'll just hint at a few. The main benefit though is to make sure I get a good nights sleep every single night. Maybe I might relax these rules at the weekends but for now, that's exactly what I'll do.

The next benefit is such that my body will know its timetable is and hopefully should allow me to get to sleep much more quickly. Since I stopped drinking caffeine though it's very infrequent that I get those insomniac nights.

Finally, the last benefit is more a lifestyle one. If I get into work earlier, then it means I can come home earlier and have way more time for myself in the evening. This also ties in with not messing around in work and having a reasonable lunchtime (instead of an overly long lunchtime).

*What things have you changed in your life regarding your sleep? Did it work?*
