---
layout: post
title: Being Nice or Being a Tool
published: true
tags: [ customers ]
---
Over the past few days I had some interesting experiences with nice and nasty bus drivers. I'm not sure what it is about them but they seem to be one way or the other and I definitely saw the two extremes.

Firstly, when landing at Auckland airport, the airport flyer bus driver was quite possibly one of the nicest bus drivers I've ever seen. Not only did his companion on the sidewalk help us get our tickets, he was also helping every single person who got on the bus.

"Does this bus go to town?" which I think has an obvious answer.

"Yes" says the driver, "Where are you staying?"

"I'm at the YHA, I think, here, I have a map, just hang on ..."

"Oh, that's stop 4, just opposite the ..." etc etc.

Every single stupid question, broken-English mutterings and random words that any of the passengers could come up with, he answered in a mild, calm and extremely helpful way.

Think about the situation, you're Spanish and speak only a little English. You've just landed at a foreign airport after more than 24hrs in the sky, you're jet lagged and you have to navigate new money in a new country to get to a new city and a new hostel. What would you prefer? Someone who helps you incessantly - which is what I saw on the Auckland Airport Flyer - or a nasty little man who shouldn't be in a public service job. I'm afraid to say that that is what I saw in Wellington.

Just before the Mt Vic tunnel, a man with an American accent seemed to be a little flustered. Obviously he was late for an appointment, meeting or social occasion. Trying to get his words out he wondered if he could get off the bus on the other side of the tunnel.

"No, next stop is Courtney Place", says the bus driver.

"Really? Can't you drop me just after the tunnel?"

"No".

At this point, I wonder why the bus driver didn't explain that it was an Airport Flyer, hence they only stop at certain points, the next of which was Courtney Place.

"Are there any other buses that go this way?" An obvious question from someone new to the area.

"I don't know" says the bus driver.

Wow. That's the most unhelpful thing ever. This guy is a bus driver and he says that he doesn't know if any other buses go this way. Hang on a second, isn't that a sackable offence, being that dumb to not know if there are any other buses that go this way. Doesn't he drive with his eyes open (which would obviously tell him the answer). After all, there were about 3 other people at the bus stop _not_ getting on to this bus, so surely there would be other buses. And he knows the route AND he's a bus driver AND he's meant to help people. I determine instead that this driver is not dumb, otherwise he wouldn't be driving buses, but instead he is being pig ignorant, unaccommodating and stroppy.

"Ok" says the man, obviously he's desperate enough just to get through the tunnel. "How much is it please?"

"Six dollars" says the bus driver. By now I could see he was getting irate but not for any real reason.

"Six dollars?" asks the man, "Six Dollars!" he says again. By now very puzzled and getting even more flustered. Again I figure that the bus driver will explain that it's also more expensive because it's an airport flyer. I'm also guessing the man didn't know this and also doesn't know that you get those security cameras on the bus, free wifi and nicer seats as well as space for luggage. None of which the man needed since he just wanted to get to the next stop and nothing more.

"YEAH, SIX DOLLARS!" says the bus driver. By now I feel sorry for the guy but also am thinking the bus driver is a complete tool. Seriously, what did someone do to him to be like that. So different to the bus driver in Auckland.

"No, no, it's okay" says the man and gets off, both extremely frustrated and amazed at the most unhelpful driver.

"Get off!" says the bus driver, just to ram it home as if the guy wasn't already late, bemused and flummoxed.

It really was a tale of two different attitudes. I bet the first enjoys his job and the second thinks he is better than that and should be doing something else. I don't know, but it was amazing to see such extremes in the space of two days.

Only the night before I had seen a book in the bookshop titled "Don't hire Assholes" and I really wish I'd had a copy to firstly show the bus driver and secondly to send it to his employer. It's sad how someone in a public service can be so wrong for the job. Driving buses isn't just about driving buses.

