---
layout: post
title: That Friday Feeling
published: true
tags: [ business, self-employed, catalyst ]
---
Today was the first Friday in a very long time that I haven't had that Friday Feeling. It only hit me at about 4pm when I realised that my old work ("Catalyst":http://www.catalyst.net.nz/) would be starting their beer o'clock.

For years I've had that Friday Feeling and I have usually found Friday afternoons to be less productive than other parts of the week. However, whilst still beavering away at 6pm I realised that I'm so mad busy doing things that I don't really think of what day it is, or even what time it is. It's also because the things I'm busy with actually interest me and whilst I'd say I've always had an interesting job, doing the things you want to do and how you want to do them make it infinitely more enjoyable.

Going back to weekends. For me now, the weekends are just extensions to the week for two reasons.

Firstly, I don't have to do housekeeping chores like my washing at the weekend since I'm able to do it when I like through the week. This even means I choose a beautiful day so that my clothes actually have a chance to dry. This is definitely an advantage of the time being your own.

And secondly, I'll be heading into the office both days of a weekend anyway so it doesn't mean much to me anymore. Currently I work at home in the early morning, head in to the office for a long afternoon (which broadly covers lunch and tea), then back home for some more late night hacking.

Weekends now just means that the probability of seeing certain friends is higher than on other days of the week. Obviously these are friends who have day jobs and have less ability to mould their own time. However, I also have a number of friends who are self-employed and the probability of me seeing them is higher on every single day :) This is definitely a perk of being self-employed and one I intend to take full advantage of.

Finally, this entry is a kind of "Yep, I've quit and the business is up and going" introduction and I promise to keep you more up to date as things progress.

