---
category: recipe
layout: recipe
title: Fish Ambot Tik (Fish in a Hot and Sour Sauce)
published: true
ingredients:
- 750g steaks of shark or monk fish
- 1 tablespoon cider vinegar
- 1 teaspoon salt
- 1 teaspoon ground turmeric
- 3 tablespoons coconut, vegetable or corn oil
- 1 tablespoon minced or crushed garlic
- 1 small onion, finely chopped
- 1 tablespoon ground coriander
- 1/2-1 teaspoon chilli powder
- 2 teaspoons sweet paprika
- 90g creamed coconut, cut into small pieces
- 300ml warm water
- 1 level teaspoon tamarind concentrate or 1 1/2 tablespoons lemon juice
serves: 4
tags: [ white-fish, coconut-cream, rice ]
---
h2. Method

# Skin the shark or monk fish and divide each steak into two by cutting along the centre bone.
# Wash the fish gently and drain. Lay the fish on a large plate and pour the vinegar evenly over it. Sprinkle with half the salt and half the tumeric. Turn the pieces of fish over with a spoon until the tumeric and salt are evenly distributed. Cover and set aside for 20 minutes.
# Heat the oil over a medium heat and add the garlic. Allow garlic to brown lightly, then add the onions and fry until the onions are soft but not brown; about 5 minutes. Stir frequently. Add the ground coriander. Stir and fry for 1 minute.
# Mix the remaining tumeric, chilli powder and paprika in a small bowl and add 2 tablespoons of water to make a paste. Add this to the pan, reduce heat to low and cook for 1-2 minutes.
# Add the coconut, water, tamarind and the remaining salt. Stir until the coconut and tamarind are dissolved. If you are using lemon juice simply stir this in at the end of the cooking time.
# Add the fish along with the juices and bring to a slow simmer. Cover the pan and simmer gently for 5 minutes. Remove from the heat and serve.

Serve with plain boiled rice and vegetable stew.

Note: We have found any white fish works well. I also find that the amount of fish can be reduced since I find it a
large amount.
